>> Steve Kinney: So, I have these
beautiful sign up and sign in forms,
they don't do anything yet.
>> Steve Kinney: They can, but they don't.
So, first thing we're gonna
do is we are going to wire up
the sign in with Google,
cuz it's the simplest right now.
They don't necessarily need to
have created an account yet.
We know that we have Google
accounts we can use that and
just to show like the how easy
it is to get OAuth working and
depending on your need
that might be enough.
You might try to just turn on, you know,
Facebook Twitter and Google sign ups and
not necessarily like manager on users.
That's a total optional need to do email
password sign ups you can if you want.
So, we'll start out with the sign in
with Google sign in option first.
And then we'll kind of flush out
the rest of it in a little bit.
>> Steve Kinney: Might have to
get a new API key at some point.
But let's get this in place for
the time being.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll go into Firebase and
now we're bringing in another module,
so we'll say import, and
we'll say Firebase/auth.
This will basically patch the Firebase
instance with the authentication
logic now we'll do something very
similar to what we did before.
We'll say export const
auth = firebase.auth, and
we're going to give
ourselves two other things.
We're going to do the provider which
is for one of our sign in techniques,
what is the OAuth provider in this
case and it's going to be Google.
So, we'll say provider = new firebase.
Google off provider.
And I don't want to deal
with it ever again.
So, I'm going to give
myself one more constant,
which is sign in with Google and
that is gonna be auth.sign in with Google.
I will pass it that provider.
All right, so now I have a function
called sign in with Google
that I can use, and
I want to take a wild guess what's going
to happen when that function
gets called not all at once.
>> Student: Get the pop-up
window that says,
do you wanna let them
use your Google account?
>> Steve Kinney: Yep.
Yep, so
let's go ahead on the sign in one,
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll say onClick
>> Steve Kinney: Let's sign in with Popup.
>> Steve Kinney: There's a bunch of them,
you can do sign in with redirect,
you can do sign in with Popup,
you can do a few of these.
>> Steve Kinney: So
now you see I go ahead, pick myself.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's make this function.
I did the thing to myself this time.
Cool, so sign up with Google,
we'll get the pop-up,
we'll select it, we'll head back in.
Nothing happens at this point cuz
we're not doing anything with
that information, right?
We are technically authenticated but
our application doesn't know, right.
Now that will return a promise
that I can do stuff with, but
just like subscribing to updates, I can do
something very similar where I can detect
whenever the auth state changes and then
update my application state based on that.
So, let me
go ahead and
do that.
>> Steve Kinney: And so,
we'll do that in application.
before we had this unsubscribe, and
I'm gonna rename that
unsubscribeFromFirestore.
Cuz now I've got multiple things
I need to unsubscribe from.
Cool, so we'll go ahead as well and
we'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: unsubscribeFromAuth.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll say this.
UnsubscribeFromAuth = this
auth,
>> Steve Kinney: Make sure I got
the right one, yep.
onAuthStateChanged.
This will fire whenever they go
from logged out to logged in,
or from logged in to logged out.
So, when that happens, we'll get either
a user object or we'll get null, right?
Null if they're logged out, a user object
if they are, if they have logged in.
>> Steve Kinney: So, all I'll do with that
is I'll say this.setState with the user.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll flip over.
Right,
you can see there is a user logged in.
>> Steve Kinney: But look,
we've got the user, passing the user in.
And let me look at this authentication
component, we need to pass that.
>> Steve Kinney: Pass those
properties to that component as well.
And you can see,
you get a whole lot for free here.
Right?
This is provided by
the Google OAuth mechanism.
I can get my like two-thirds
of my son's face.
And then mine I got the email address
that's currently just the current time.
You got the display name that's
formatted with a lot of providers that
are automatically be in there,
let's go ahead.
There's a lot of properties
on the user object, but
most of them aren't very useful.
There are a few though.
So, let's do console.
log user.
>> Steve Kinney: So, here's that user,
a lot of not useful stuff you can see
there's the display name, and email,
if you're [INAUDIBLE] with Google,
you'll get this email verified as
true because it already knows that.
There is some metadata like
the last sign in time.
And stuff like that,
that you can use as well.
But the rest of these don't
really mean a whole lot.
But there are a few, kind of used ones
hanging out there that you can use.
We are using the photo URL
that you can see here.
The display name,
the email address and the UID,
the four that we're using this
application but there are.
There's a few more hiding in there, but
most of these are just kinda metadata.
Anonymous is kind of a cool one that we're
not gonna get into today, but I wanna like
bring your attention to, which is you
can basically log people in anonymously.
You're like,
why would I ever want to do that?
Which is basically, you can store
a certain amount of cookie state.
Which is like, let's say they
go to your store application and
they start putting things in the cart and
they don't have an account yet and
then they create the account.
You can then merge anonymous
user with their real one and
track a few things in there to kinda
have a better user experience as well.
And that's just a method on auth called,
I think it's sign in anonymously,
or something along those lines.